# Crowdfunding_ETL
Project_2

#### Crowdfunding_ETL
## Description
We performed an ETL pipeline and data management project. We extracted data from Excel files, transformed the data via Python scripting into csv files, and loaded it all into a SQL database.
Extract: We began with the extraction phase, where we uploaded two Excel files.
Transform: With Python code, we read and manipulated the data from the Excel files. This involved converting data formats, splitting columns, and reordering them to match our desired schema.
Load: We used SQL scripts to create tables in our database corresponding to the CSV files.
To accomplish this analysis, we utilized Mac OS, Windows OS, Python, QuickDBD to generate an ERD, Pandas, pgAdmin 4, Excel, VSCode, SQL, and GitHub.
## Table of Contents
Data for analysis was extracted, transformed, and loaded from the ‘crowdfunding.xlsx’ and ‘contacts.xlsx’ files and then exported as the ‘campaign.csv', ‘category.csv’, ‘contacts.csv’, and ‘subcategory.csv’ files located in the ‘Resources’ directory. The database schema file named ‘crowdfunding_db_schema.sql’ is located in the ‘Resources’ directory.
## Installation Instructions
Code utilized for this challenge can be found in the file 'ETL_Mini_Project_KSmith_KSamples.ipynb' on the github "Crowdfunding_ETL" repo.
## Usage
Can Git Clone all files from the 'Crowdfunding_ETL' repo.
## Credits
For this challenge we utilized Google, ChatGPT, Stack Overflow, TA assistance, and educational resources related to the unit provided by the bootcamp.
## License
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.